Will we ever be able to Teleport?
Every science fiction buff has wondered, will
we ever be able to teleport?
In films teleportation is normally portrayed
in the following way:
Alice steps into some sort of teleportation
pod. She is broken down into tiny fragments
and those are sent across to final her destination
where her fragments are reassembled.
We have not found a way to do this however
scientists have found an alternative called
quantum teleportation.
A phenomena called quantum entanglement between
two particles connects them in such a way
that when the property or rather quantum state
of one particle is changed an instantaneous
and opposite change in the quantum state of
the other particle occurs.
So, if we have a set of entangled particles,
particle A and B, simply by knowing the quantum
state of one particle we can know the quantum
state of the other.
This ability to know the quantum state of
particles using quantum entanglement have
allowed scientists to teleport particles.
Here’s how it works:
two particles are entangled and separated
by a large distance. A third particle, particle T,
is brought in and this is the particle
that we want to teleport. Particle T interacts
with particle A and we learn how the quantum
state of particle T relates to particle A,
this information is then sent across to where
particle B is kept.
As particle A and B are entangled, this information
about how the quantum state of particle T
relates to particle A will also reveal how
the quantum state of particle T relates to
particle B.
Particle B will then be manipulated to replicate
the quantum state of Particle T becoming an
exact copy of particle T.
Meanwhile the original particle T is destroyed
as it’s information was extracted and sent across.
So if we can do this for one particle and
humans are after all made up of nothing but
particles will we eventually be doing this
with humans?
Well a single human being contains a huge
amount of particles - the number would have
twenty eight zeros behind it - that would
mean an immense amount of data would need
to be transferred for human teleportation.
Transferring this amount of data using the
means we have today would take upwards of
a quadrillion years.
At the same it opens up a philosophical debate
of whether particle T is actually particle T
or a precise copy of Particle T.
Imagine that human quantum teleportation became
a reality.
Say Alice wants to travel from London to Tokyo.
Two chambers of entangled particles would
be in each city.
Alice would step into a scanning device and
the quantum state of each individual particle
would be measured in relation to the chamber
of particles in London.
This information would be relayed to Tokyo
and there the chamber of particles would be
manipulated to replicate the quantum state
of each of Alice’s individual particles
creating an exact replica of Alice.
Meanwhile the original Alice in London has
been destroyed.
The question is, as the original Alice dies
in the process of teleportation but is reconstructed
at her destination in Tokyo, is the final Alice
still Alice?
Tokyo Alice is identical to the last atom
as the London Alice and is in full possession
of London Alice’s knowledge, experience
and memories and Tokyo Alice even believes
she is the London Alice while the original
London Alice no longer exists to debate the
issue with her.
It’s a philosophical and ethical dilemma
but it may not be one we will need to face.
As we have discussed human teleportation would
be extremely difficult and although theoretically
it is not impossible it is improbable.
As always we hope you enjoyed this video and
make sure to subscribe to LondonCityGirl for
more informative and interesting videos.
Thanks for stopping by and supporting our
channel and we'll see you next time.